You've seen how we can link up containers using the name of a
container and how that allows us to communicate between,
for instance, a web server and a database server.
But Docker does provide a different technique that can be used
that also provides additional functionality, and that's what
we're going to talk about here.
So what we're going to cover is something called
container networks or bridge networks.
Now to understand this, think of a Docker host.
Now, this could be a Linux box up in the cloud,
it could be VirtualBox running locally with that Linux box in it,
wherever it may be.
And then in that Linux box, you have these different
containers that need to talk with each other.
And so to do that, we could use naming,
but anything that knows the name could automatically
get to that container by the name.
And while that's a good thing,
especially I think in the development environment, it's very
easy to get started with and to use, once you start having a
whole bunch of containers running,
you might want to start to isolate those containers so
that you have to be in the same group, if you will.
Well, we don't call it a group, but we do call it a network,
or a bridge network is the official term you'll see in the Docker documentation.
And the way it works is you can, through Docker client,
create an isolated network, and you just give it a name.
It's a very simple command that I'll show you coming up here in a moment.
Any container that's run in that isolated network can communicate
with other containers in that same isolated network,
and they do so by name.
That's why we took a look at the legacy linking type of
container naming and linking earlier.
That means I could have one set up here, maybe this is a
Node.js server talking to MongoDB, whereas I might have a separate,
isolated network with Postgres,
ASP.NET Core, and some other type of infrastructure set up there for containers.
So this is nice because I can actually now group the
containers into their own isolated network,
and that allows me to isolate them much more in who they're allowed to
communicate with as far as their container friends,
if you will.
The steps to follow to create a container network
are actually very straightforward,
and the commands you're going to run with Docker client are also very easy.
So the first thing we'll do is we need to create a custom bridge network,
and we'll give that a name.
Now, once you've set up your custom bridge network and given it a name,
then you can start the containers up using the standard docker run,
but we can specify what isolated network to run in.
Now it is possible for a container to run in more than one network,
and that would allow it to communicate with multiple
containers that might be kind of cross group,
if you will, cross isolated network.
Now we're going to focus just on one isolated network in this
particular example and the examples that follow,
but you can definitely do some more advanced things if you'd like there.
So let's walk through the steps here real quick.
So step one involves creating a custom bridge network.
And the way we do that is we use the Docker client,
and we use the network command.
And we could say, hey Docker, I'd like to create a new network.
I'd like to use the bridge as the driver,
and there's a bunch of different drivers you can do as mentioned,
even cross host is possible, and more.
And then I'm going to name the custom network.
Now, I gave it a real basic name of isolated_network,
but it could literally be whatever you want.
This is just like naming an image or naming a container when you run it,
you can come up with whatever name you want here.
Now, that's it.
Now,
what that will do out of the box is not a whole lot because
it just creates this isolated network, but at this point,
nothing's in it.
So step two involves then running your containers,
but specifying that I'd like to run that container in a specific network,
and notice that I'm now saying I'm going to run it in isolated_network,
which of course is what we just saw that was created.
Now we've said what network we want this container to run in,
but how would another container in the same network call into this container?
And the answer there is we do just like we did earlier with
the legacy linking and we give it a name.
So every container that you want to link up will have a name.
So in this case, I named it just plain old mongodb.
Now, the connection string for a web container that's also in the
isolated_network could then call into MongoDB by using a server name of
mongodb because that's what the container name is.
So I won't have to use the ‑‑link that we saw earlier with the legacy linking,
and you're going to see all this coming up with an example in just a moment,
but all I have to do is just give every container that I want to link to a name.
As long as they're in the same isolated network in this case,
I can now reference that name just like we saw earlier,
and then I'm off and running. I can hit a database,
a caching server, or whatever it may be.
Now it's important to note that the Docker documentation
doesn't actually refer to this technique with the bridge and
the container networking as linking.
That's a term I like to use because it just makes sense.
We want to link one container to another,
but in this world, really,
we would just call it communicate between one container and another container.
Now to wrap this up, I also want to mention that linking,
as far as the legacy linking, is actually not supported in this world.
We don't need it of course.
We have our isolated network and we can just use that directly.
So now that you've seen an example of what this bridge
network or container networking looks like,
let's jump into the samples that we already saw earlier with
Node and Mongo and ASP.NET Core and Postgres. Let's see how we can change those up to use this technique.